Part of managing your diabetes at home
is making good choices.
Measuring your blood sugar regularly
can help by showing you how certain foods,
exercise, and stress
can affect your blood sugar.
Talk to your healthcare provider
about how often and when
to check your blood sugar.
In addition to these regular times,
you should also check your
blood sugar when feeling ill,
especially with symptoms of hypoglycemia,
or low blood sugar.
Testing your blood sugar level
requires a device
to prick your finger,
called a lancet,
a blood glucose meter,
or glucometer,
and test strips.
Here are the steps for
testing your blood glucose:
First,
wash the area you’re going
to prick with warm water.
Let it air dry.
Prick the side of the finger
with the lancet.
Place a drop of blood on the strip.
Make sure blood completely covers
the required area on the strip.
Measure the sugar level from the strip
with the blood glucose meter.
When you have a checkup,
always bring your blood sugar records.
This enables you and your healthcare
providers to work most effectively
as a team
for good diabetes management.